#summary Release notes for Synecdoche version 0.1.1
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

The release notes for Synecdoche document differences from BOINC,
and things you will want to watch out for when running Synecdoche.

= Notes for 0.1.1 =

Synecdoche is based on BOINC 6.2.
This means there is no support for running CUDA applications,
since it was added in BOINC 6.4.
We have no plans to implement CUDA or ATI Stream support in the near future.

== Differences from BOINC ==
 * Some UI updates
 * Performance and security updates
 * BOINC API included, but not actively maintained

== Platform notes ==

=== Windows ===
There is no real installer yet.
Synecdoche is available as a zip archive
containing the needed programs.

To use it, extract the archive into its own folder
and run "synecmgr.exe".

Due to the lack of a real installer,
it will not auto-start on boot.

Windows 95/98/ME are *not* supported.
Internally, they are like a different operating system
compared to NT/2000/XP/Vista.

=== Mac OS X ===
Synecdoche requires Mac OS X 10.4 or later.
It will run on a PowerPC machine or an Intel machine,
and will attempt to make use of 64-bit on supported Intel processors.
It comes packaged as a standard Installer package.
Run the package, and it will install Synecdoche in the Applications folder for you.
Currently, the install location cannot be changed.
By default, it also installs the Synecdoche screensaver
and a project list to be used by the GUI.

*Warning*: A certificate file to attach to projects that use HTTPS, 
like World Community Grid, should have been included, but was 
accidentally left out. This will be fixed in the next release.

  * A temporary fix to the above is to copy the *ca-bundle.crt* file from a BOINC installation (/Library/Application Support/BOINC Data) or from another Synecdoche release bundle, and place it in the Synecdoche data directory (/Library/Application Support/Synecdoche Data).

To start, open Synecdoche.app in the Applications folder.

To make it run on boot, add Synecdoche.app to your
Login Items in System Preferences.

Note that if you run as a non-admin user,
even if you enter the admin password while installing,
you may not be able to run Synecdoche later.
This issue is being investigated.

There is currently no uninstaller.
Dragging the application to the Trash is not enough;
the project data and the screensaver will remain in the system.
This will be addressed in a future version.

=== Linux ===
Making a portable Linux binary is hard,
so we only provide source code for Linux.
A Debian package may be available for the next version.
Other distros will be supported if someone volunteers to make a package.

The code should compile on any Unix-like system.
There are basic compilation instructions in the INSTALL file of the source distribution.
More detailed instructions may be available as a separate wiki page soon.

Unlike BOINC, the Synecdoche client will always use the same directory to store its data,
instead of the current working directory.
This eliminates common confusion when people run the client from a different place than the previous time
and notice "they lost their running tasks".
Once you run `make install`, you cannot move the directory you used as `--prefix`,
since it gets hardcoded into the `synecd` binary.
To change the data directory at runtime, use `synecd --dir path/to/dir`.

== Limitations ==

Synecdoche cannot be running at the same time as BOINC.
This is not a bug; it would be the same as running two instances of BOINC at the same time.

Some projects may not work correctly.
We try to remain compatible with BOINC,
but sometimes projects rely on more implementation details than they should.
A [ProjectCompatibilityMatrix project compatibility list] is kept to document incompatibilities.
Currently the only project known to have problems is POEM@Home.

The manager is only available in English,
translations are currently disabled.
We plan to bring translations back,
but it needs some work,
especially in the build system
and in how we will work with volunteer translations.